Hey, Big Liz. Don't call me Big Blizz.
What made the stock market taken the
past few days? Obviously, there's no
answer to a question like this. The
market comes and goes. The narrative
over the past few days has been, are we
all way, way, way overallocated to a
gigantic AI bet?
No, it's not terrorists. It's not Biden.
It's all been Wait a minute. Are every
single one of us insanely to the moon,
overallocated to an what? What it really
was was um it was Sammy Alman, Open AAI
CEO, literally said, you shouldn't say
this, by the way. If you are a Pokemon
card salesman, whose entire warehouse is
filled with Charizards and the only
thing you do is sell Charizards to stay
alive, you shouldn't say, "Ah, listen. I
think Charizards are in a bubble."
Because Sam Alman literally said, "I
think AI could be in a bubble." That
scared like that scared in. If he's
saying it, that's scary. He said the
word. Nothing major happened. This was
just two days of like bad performance
for tech which was nothing crazy. It
was, you know, pretty minor drops all
things considered. But here here's the
main things. But like here, let's get
paints back because this is actually
interesting topic. There's been a couple
things that have happened lately that
are all like making people kind of
nervous. Number one was this GPT5. We
talked about it. GPT5 was mid.
It was mid to actually it started out
mid and has gotten worse. It is now bad.
I don't know if any of you are active
chat GPT users, but it actually has
gotten worse every day. People are
noticing that because they're hitting
their energy limit. This is what Sam
Alman said, too. Like they're they are
hitting their server and energy limits.
They're having to rate limit and they're
having to like uh route all the
questions to the worst models. And so
it's getting worse. So GPT5 was like
this incredibly hyped Death Star. He Sam
Alman was on Oprah saying how it's like
I I can't tell you how crazy it's about
to be. If you knew what I knew, you
might hide in a bunker. And then GBT
comes out and it's like it can't even
tell you how many Rs are in Strawberry
still. And like it was still bad. So
this happened and then second thing
happened. Number two, Sam Alman goes
bubble. He says the word bubble. Now,
everyone has known the word bubble's
been floating in the air, but nobody
with power or money and AI has ever said
it.
Finally, Sam Alman said the word bubble,
which is like, oh, wait a minute. Is it
It's very possible we're in a bubble.
Like, especially because, you know, when
you talk about AI, you hear about people
like Open AI or Microsoft or Google or
Meta, companies that all have some cash
flow. They're all big, stable. But the
real like area you're seeing the bubble
is all these AI startups whose
valuations are like astronomically
bigger. They don't even none of them
make any money. They're not even close.
Most of them, every user they add loses
them more money. The amount they spend
on GPU tokens is more than they make
from the user. So, it's all loss.
There's these really crazy valuations in
like most AI startups. I'd say all of
them outside of like anthropic and Chad
GBT. Also, one more thing I want to say,
what's the right word for it? It's like
data center depreciation. To explain
this simply, this basically means if you
spend a hundred billion dollar buying
Nvidia GPUs to set up a data center for
your AI startup, on the books, you might
write this will last us for 6 to 8
years. But in reality, what everyone is
realizing is it kind of lasts you like 2
years, two to four maybe, you know, and
like you have to get you have to
upgrade, you have to buy more. And every
year your GPUs that you bought are
significantly losing value, becoming out
of date. Some of them are burning out or
breaking. And so the cost of doing
business is actually a lot higher than
everyone was anticipating. like it's
more expensive and there's a chance, you
know, I think everyone was was framing
this as if I spend a hundred billion
dollars on AI on GPUs, I'm a hundred
billion ahead of you. But the reality is
a year a year later, maybe you're like
50 billion ahead. Two years later,
you're like not ahead at all. They can
just buy the better chips. Like it's not
as much of a moat, you know? It's not as
much of a moat. It's like it's like a
really It's like quicksand. You think
you're standing on this big hill, but
you're like sinking in. It's just not
It's not as much of an advantage as they
thought. Which is, by the way, I I I
hate to give any credit here, but this
is kind of vindicating Apple. Apple
low-key said this. They put out a paper
saying this. Apple basically said like,
"We're not going to waste all our money
on this [__] We're going to wait a
little longer. like this is all it's all
like not quite there and we're we're not
going to get in this arms race of
spending ever more hundreds of billions
of dollars. So, Apple's wait and see is
like it's kind of it's looking better.
I'm not saying this has all happened
yet, by the way. It's like the very be
like if if the hype cycle was this, it's
like the tiniest little dip. It's like
over the hill. That's what it feels
like. It feels like we just crested the
hill and everyone's like, "Wait, what?"
You know, that's what it feels like. But
anyway, Apple is looking like they may
have been smarter than everyone thought
a few months ago. So that's part of it.
And then the last thing is like in the
past few days, like you're wondering why
the stock market has been like a little
sketchy in the past few days. It's also
been meta. So the funniest thing about
meta is that up until a few days ago,
Mark Zuckerberg was like, I will spend
any amount of money. I will burn my
empire to ash. I will spend every single
thing I can. I will hire an AI
researcher for a trillion dollars. I
don't care. Whatever you cost, I will
pay. I will spend a billion dollars for
you from OpenAI and I'll spend a billion
dollars from you from Google and I'll
hire anyone. And then like a day ago,
two days ago, they're freezing AI hiring
and they're already like downsizing and
restructuring. Like this is all very
recent. It's like they finally checked
the books and like whoa we are spending
a lot of money
on these people like you know there the
offers they were giving were absurd the
$und00 million signing bonuses and all
that and so these type of things are
sending signals it's like very early but
it's sending signals to the market of
like oh wait a minute there is a limit
to the amount of money you can spend oh
wait a minute Chad GPT wasn't the the
leap forward we expected oh wait a Sam
Alman's saying bubble. But yeah, the the
the meta news was pretty big because I'm
not kidding. Like a month ago it was
like we will buy anyone at any price.
And now it's like we'll only even
consider hiring something if our
27year-old
billionaire AI kid agrees.
It all routes through Alexander Wang
now, who they already spent an absurd
amount of money to get. and his only
thing was paying someone, you know, $8
an hour to label pictures of dogs.
By the way, I've had multiple people
reach out to me who worked for Scale AI.
Scale AI was just paying minimum wage to
get people to label pictures of of, you
know, animals or like to do a basic
coding question or what just to get
actual human data so they can feed it to
the machine. And that guy got that guy's
a billionaire for that. That was his
startup and he's a billionaire. It's
crazy. Oh yeah. And then there was a
there's actually one more thing and it's
pretty important. This paper this was an
MIT report. This was really big. This is
actually making a lot of waves too and I
need to talk about this. This was the AI
report about AI agents and it looked at
all the money that corporations have
spent on AI agents to replace workers
and how they've worked so far and who's
seeing success. The main takeaway is
that 95%
have gotten zero return. They've put
billions of dollars in and they're not
getting anything out. It's not working
yet. It's not So all of these thing like
this this paper again we're I don't want
to overstate it. The stock market has
not moved that much, but all of this
happened within a few days ago. Like all
of this has happened really recently and
it's all got people being like, "Wait a
minute. Am I the fool?"
you know, I've put all of my money into
this. Am I am I at all concerned that
this wasn't perfect? And a couple things
could happen to turn this around. Um,
any one of the the big tech companies
could release incredible earnings. Uh,
Chat GPT is going to raise money at a
$500 billion valuation. By the way, I
don't I don't have the exact dates and I
don't want to I don't want to be misqued
here, but it is absurd how frequently
Open AI is needing to raise new money.
Like OpenAI raised $17 billion, no, $10
billion and then a few weeks later they
need to raise another seven. Like
they're they're raising money like
they're burning through a lot of cash.
What I'm trying to say, they're burning
through cash very very quickly. It just
it just is just leading to a lot of
questions is all I'm saying. All this is
making everybody a little bit more
questioning. Meta hiring and then we'll
put the plus the 95%. The 95% agents
being useless that equals question mark.
That all feels bubbly to me. Now, I've
been saying bubble forever and I I have
an inherent bias. So, I don't want to
overstate here, but I will say that
there hasn't been a lot of news in the
past few days that would be like
positive
on the everything is working out. This
is all going great. The the money's well
spent. I think this is the talked about
the least. This is probably the biggest
one. This part is so under discussed
that so much of the money being thrown
at GPUs is going to be wasted within a
few years. People have ignored it. They
handwaved it and now they're like, "Wait
a minute, we're just going to be out of
date." Like, they're going to have to
buy it again. What does bubble mean? Uh,
a bubble is like when uh investor hype
exceeds the reality. when when
valuations of companies exceed what
they're actually able to make or earn in
any reasonable time frame. And and to be
clear, bubbles have happened with every
other major new technology in the stock
market ever, not just the internet. You
can go all the way back to like trains,
trains, radio,
canals. This is in my notes and it's
very helpful. canals, railways,
automobiles,
radio, airlines, PCs, telecoms,
internet, solar panels, ride sharing,
weed, spaxs, crypto, EVs, and AI. Every
one of these technologies when they
first launch, even if they end up being
useful, you know, again, like solar
panels, solar panels are a big deal.
They're a big part of energy today. But
in 2008, 2011, there was a massive
bubble. Solar companies got way ahead of
their skis. They were valued way higher
than they would end up being worth for
the next decade. They were like it
wasn't even close to being able to roll
out mass solar panels. Telecoms, fiber,
this is like this is like um you know
Cisco in in the internet bubble. Just a
lot of this [__] happens and they end up
it's like oh wait a minute there's a lot
more problems to figure out. And I think
AI to say that it's like never it's
totally different this time and that
won't fall to the same human tendencies.
I think it's crazy. It feels like a lot
of money's been wasted is all I'll say.
It's been misallocated. What you're
saying is that a bubble's not a
significant predict if a technology be
useful or not. No. If anything, a
technology that will be useful is more
likely to have a bubble because then
there's a truth to it. If it's 1999 and
you tell me the internet's going to
change everything, that's true.
It feels true. It looks true. It's like
this is cool. You're you're correct. But
with the problem is you are you're way
too early or you're way you know you're
you don't even know the right you don't
know who's going to change everything.
You think it's going to be pets.com or
you think you think the the money is
going to flow to people putting telecom
wire in the ground but in fact it's
going to go to search engines in you
know you don't get it yet. So the way AI
makes money is not even fully mapped out
yet. Yeah I mean drunk gnome that's a
great point. If you picked Amazon it
fell 90%. Amazon stock fell 90% in the
bubble. the Jeff Bezos earnings letter
after that fall is really funny. It just
opens with one word. It says ouch
in like 2001 or whatever. So anyway, we
no guarantees either way, but I would
say all these things combined in the
past few days make people a little more
skeptical. Just a little more skeptical.
It's a combination of bad news that all
just seems a little weird. But a few
things in the future in the next few
weeks could could get the heights back
on track. The main thing that usually
saves it is is one of the big tech
companies, Google, Meta, whatever, will
release a great earnings report and then
everyone's like, "Ah, this is great.
We're back back on board.
[Music]